-: Why do we need security for applications?
Security In The Cloud
As adoption of cloud services has increased, so has the need for increased security in the cloud. The great thing about cloud security is that it not only protects data, it also protects applications that access the data. Cloud security even protects the infrastructure (like servers) that applications run on.

The way security is delivered depends on the cloud provider you're using and the cloud security options they offer.

=============================
-: AWS Web Application Firewall
A firewall is a network security mechanism dt monitors and
ctrls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on preset 
security rules.

WAF can protect websites not hosted in AWS through Cloud Front.

AWS WAF: It allows you to protect your web applications from common web exploits by monitoring and controlling the web requests coming to an Amazon API Gateway, an Amazon CloudFront distribution, or an Application Load Balancer.

AWS Shield: It provides continuous DDoS attack detection and automatic mitigations. AWS Shield offers two tiers of protection - Standard and Advanced.

AWS Firewall Manager: It allows you to configure and manage firewall rules across accounts and applications centrally.

Within AWS WAF service, you can create Web access control lists (web ACLs) to monitor HTTP(S) requests for AWS resources. You can protect the following types of resources:

CloudFront distributions
Regional resources (Application Load Balancer, API Gateway, AWS AppSync)
While creating a web ACL, you add rules, such as conditions like originating IP addresses, that determines whether to allow/block each request.

=============================
-: AWS Shield
AWS Shield is a managed DDoS (or Distributed Denial of Service) protection service that safeguards web applications running on AWS. AWS Shield offers two tiers of protection - Standard and Advanced.

Standard tier: Standard AWS Shield is a service that you get "out of the box", it is always running (automatically) and is a part of the free standard tier.
Advanced tier: If you want to use some of the more advanced features, you'll have to utilize the paid tier.

DDoS: overwhelm a website with requests to make it crash.

=============================
-: Identity and Access Management (IAM)
Identity & Access Management (IAM) is an AWS service that allows us to 
configure who can access our AWS account, services, or even applications 
running in our account.

1. IAM User
A user is a unique identifier generated by the IAM service and recognized 
by all AWS services to grant access to AWS resources. A user can be a 
person, system, or application that requires access to AWS services. You 
can generate login credentials and access keys for any user in your account. 

Roles and policies control the scope (permissions) of a user's access to 
AWS resources in your account.

2. IAM Group
A group is a collectn of IAM users with the same level of permissions to 
access AWS resources. You can attach or detach permissions to a group 
using access control policies. A group makes it easier to manage IAM 
users with the same level of permissions.

3. IAM Role
A role is simply a set of policies (permissions) to access AWS services. 
You can assign a role either to an IAM user or an AWS service such as 
EC2. Creating and storing roles helps to delegate access with defined 
permissions without sharing long-term access keys.

Difference between an IAM role and an IAM user
An IAM user has permanent credentials that can be used to interact with 
AWS services directly. In contrast, an IAM role does not have any 
credentials; hence it cannot make direct requests to AWS services. 

IAM roles are assumed by authorized entities, such as IAM users, 
applications, or other AWS services.

User and roles use policies for authorization. Keep in mind that user 
and role can't do anything until you allow certain actions with a policy.

4. IAM Policy
An access control policy is a JSON file that defines the resource to grant 
access, level of access, and allowed actions. You can attach a policy to 
multiple users, groups, or roles to assign permissions to AWS resources.

A Policy is a container for permissions. The different types of policies 
you can create are an IAM Policy, an S3 Bucket Policy, an SNS Topic Policy, 
a VPC Endpoint Policy, and an SQS Queue Policy.

A policy is a document (written in the Access Policy Language) that acts 
as a container for one or more statements.

See a sample IAM policy that allows full EC2 access within a specific AWS region:
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Action": "ec2:*",
            "Resource": "*",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Condition": {
                "StringEquals": {
                    "ec2:Region": "us-east-2"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}

In addition to IAM policies, AWS offers other types of policies, such 
as an S3 Bucket Policy, an SNS Topic Policy, a VPC Endpoint Policy, and 
an SQS Queue Policy. There is a helpful utility, AWS Policy Generator, 
that can generate either of the policies mentioned above.

https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/policygen.html

=============================



=============================
